Ben Aronson	Ben Aronson (born October 4, 1958) is an American painter living in Massachusetts. His work is represented by Tibor de Nagy Gallery in New York, Jenkins Johnson Gallery in San Francisco, and Alpha Gallery in Boston.One of the strongest urban scene painters working today, Aronson's painterly urban landscapes combine precise realism with gestural immediacy and Abstract Expressionist energy. His work has become influential among, and emulated by many contemporary cityscape painters. His paintings are included in the permanent collections of more than fifty museums throughout the U.S. and abroad, including the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, the De Young Museum in San Francisco, The Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, the Eli and Edythe Broad Art Museum, MI, and the Suzhou Museum, Jiangsu Province, China, as well as numerous private and institutional collections."Aronson's luscious impastos depict Manhattan's skyscrapers and concrete canyons, Paris's stately buildings, and San Francisco's skyline with great dexterity", winning acclaim as "...the real deal: the rich physicality of oil paint married to the mutable physics of perception".In recent years his cityscapes have evolved to include contemporary social realist themes "...in which Aronson moves the human figure from its lesser role within the larger urban landscape, into a full subject of its own. Echoing his dramatically lighted single object still lifes, the solitary figures have now taken their place on stage with equal poignancy." (Images/Nighthawks Series) Exhibits at the Tibor de Nagy Gallery, NYC ("Risk and Reward", 2010) and the Ogunquit Museum of American Art, Maine ("Aronson to Aronson", 2011) revealed a new emphasis on social realism in a series of paintings with Wall Street themes exploring the contemporary world of big business. His "... scenes of the New York Stock Exchange floor in particular reveal one of the most energized and sophisticated brushes in the country. His high-contrast tones, boldly thick paint and slashing marks perfectly mirror the fast-moving, high-powered and high-tech world."Donald Kuspit, professor of art history and philosophy (SUNY Stony Brook, Cornell) observes: "whatever social narrative is conveyed by Aronson's pictures, they are all exquisitely painted and emotionally haunting. Aronson is a social realist, like Edward Hopper—but he's dealing with a different [our current] social reality".
